Refactor Vercel integration docs (#3627)
neondatabase/website: content/docs/guides/vercel-overview.md

---
title: Integrating Neon with Vercel
subtitle: Choose the right connection path in seconds
redirectFrom:
  - /docs/guides/vercel-postgres
enableTableOfContents: true
updatedOn: '2025-07-02T00:00:00.000Z'
---

## Overview

This page helps you quickly choose the best Neon–Vercel integration for your project. Whether you're starting fresh or have existing infrastructure, we'll guide you to the right solution.

<Admonition type="tip" title="Quick Start">

> Most new users should start with the **Vercel-Managed Integration** for the simplest setup and unified billing. Existing Neon users can seamlessly connect with the **Neon-Managed Integration**.

Reviewer: Maybe something like this:

Choose the Vercel-Managed Integration if you’re coming to Neon through Vercel and want unified billing through Vercel.
Choose the Neon-Managed Integration if you already have a Neon account or prefer to manage billing directly with Neon.

Author: Good idea, fixed.

</Admonition>

---

## Compare the options at a glance

| Feature / Attribute     | [Vercel-Managed Integration](/docs/guides/vercel-managed-integration)                                 | [Neon-Managed Integration](/docs/guides/neon-managed-vercel-integration)                                     | [Manual Connection](/docs/guides/vercel-manual) |
| :---------------------- | :---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :---------------------------------------------- |

> | **Ideal for**           | New users, teams wanting a single Vercel bill                                                         | Existing Neon users, direct Neon billing                                                                     | Power users with custom pipelines               |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **Ideal for**           | New users, teams wanting a single Vercel bill                                                         | Existing Neon users, direct Neon billing                                                                     | Integration not required or custom               |
```

| **Neon account**        | Created automatically via Vercel                                                                      | Pre-existing Neon account                                                                                    | Pre-existing Neon account                       |

> | **Billing**             | Paid **through Vercel**                                                                               | Paid **directly to Neon**                                                                                    | Paid **directly to Neon**                       |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **Billing**             | Paid **through Vercel**                                                                               | Paid **through Neon**                                                                                    | Paid **through Neon**                       |
```

> | **Setup method**        | Vercel Marketplace → Native Integrations → "Neon Postgres"                                            | Vercel Marketplace → Connectable Accounts → "Neon"                                                           | Manual env-vars or API/CLI scripts              |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **Setup method**        | Vercel Marketplace → Native Integrations → "Neon Postgres"                                            | Vercel Marketplace → Connectable Accounts → "Neon"                                                           | Manual env-vars              |
```

> | **Preview Branching**   | ✅ (one-click in Vercel UI)                                                                           | ✅ (one-click in Vercel UI)                                                                                  | ✅ (requires scripting)                         |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **Preview Branching**   | ✅                                                                           | ✅                                                                                   | ✖️                         |
```

| **Setup complexity**    | Low                                                                                                   | Medium                                                                                                       | High                                            |
| **Implementation type** | [Native Integration](https://vercel.com/docs/integrations/install-an-integration/product-integration) | [Connectable Account](https://vercel.com/docs/integrations/install-an-integration/add-a-connectable-account) | N/A                                             |

### Billing considerations

> - **Vercel-Managed**: Consolidated billing through Vercel, but you'll be on Vercel's Neon pricing tier.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Vercel-Managed**: Consolidated billing through Vercel.
```

> - **Neon-Managed**: Direct access to all Neon plans and pricing, including free tier benefits.

Author: Thanks Dan, removing entire "billing considerations" section as it's covered elsewhere.

- **Manual**: Full control but requires more setup and maintenance overhead.

---

## Choose your integration path

<Admonition type="important" title="Do you need custom CI/CD control?">
**If you need full control over preview branching in your own CI/CD pipelines (e.g., GitHub Actions)**, use **[Manual Connections](/docs/guides/vercel-manual)** instead of the automated integrations below.
</Admonition>

For automated integrations, follow this simple flow:

<Steps>

## Do you have an existing Neon account?

**Do you already have a Neon account or project you want to keep using?**

- **✅ Yes** → Use **[Neon-Managed Integration](/docs/guides/neon-managed-vercel-integration)**
- **❌ No** → Continue below

## Choose your billing preference

**Where would you like to manage billing for Neon?**

- **Through my Vercel account** → Use **[Vercel-Managed Integration](/docs/guides/vercel-managed-integration)**
- **Directly with Neon** → Use **[Neon-Managed Integration](/docs/guides/neon-managed-vercel-integration)**

</Steps>

---

## Integration options overview

<DetailIconCards>
<a href="/docs/guides/vercel-managed-integration" title="Vercel-Managed Integration" 

>    description="Perfect for new users. Single billing through Vercel with automatic setup." icon="vercel">Vercel-Managed Integration</a>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   description="Manage Neon through Vercel with unified billing." icon="vercel">Vercel-Managed Integration</a>
```

<a href="/docs/guides/neon-managed-vercel-integration" title="Neon-Managed Integration" 

>    description="Ideal for existing Neon users. Keep your current account and billing." icon="neon">Neon-Managed Integration</a>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   description="" icon="neon">Link an existing Neon project to Vercel and keep billing in Neon. Supports preview branches.</a>
```

Author: Updated description, thanks.

<a href="/docs/guides/vercel-manual" title="Manual Connections" 
   description="Full control for power users. Custom CI/CD and advanced workflows." icon="gear">Manual Connections</a>
</DetailIconCards>

> <Admonition type="info">

Author: Done!
